Add procedure to import kickstart repos for EL9 (#1529)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_importing-kickstart-repositories.adoc

[id="Importing_Kickstart_Repositories_{context}"]
= Importing Kickstart Repositories for {RHEL}{nbsp}{el-major-version}

Use this procedure to import Kickstart repositories for {RHEL}{nbsp}{el-major-version}.

.Procedure
. Navigate to the Red{nbsp}Hat Customer Portal at https://access.redhat.com/[access.redhat.com] and log in.

> . In the upper left corner of the window, click *Downloads*.

Reviewer: Any reason not to link to https://access.redhat.com/downloads/ instead in the previous step?

Reviewer 2: Good Idea, I have not thought of that.

Author: Added.

ifeval::["{el-major-version}" >= "8"]
. Click *{RHEL} {el-major-version}*.
. In the Download {RHEL} window, locate the binary DVD version of the ISO image, for example, *{RHEL} {el-major-version}.{el-minor-version} Binary DVD*, and click *Download Now*.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{el-major-version}" == "7"]

> . To the right of *{RHEL} 7*, click *Versions 7 and below*.

Author: Applied.

. From the *Version* list, select the required version of the {RHEL} 7, for example 7.7.

> . In the Download {RHEL} window, locate the binary DVD version of the ISO image, for example, *{RHEL} 7.7 Binary DVD*, and click *Download Now*.

Author: Applied.

endif::[]
. When the download completes, copy the ISO image to {ProjectServer}.
. On {ProjectServer}, create a mount point and temporarily mount the ISO image at that location:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# mkdir /mnt/_iso_
# mount -o loop _rhel-binary-dvd.iso_ /mnt/_iso_

> ----

Author: Removed everywhere.

> . In the *Download {RHEL}* window, select a product variant and a product version from the list.
> For example, product variant *{RHEL} for x86_64* and product version *{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}*.
> . Click *Switch to version 7 and below* above the *Product Variant* list.
> . Locate the full installation image, for example, *{RHEL} {el-major-version}.{el-minor-version} Binary DVD*, and click *Download Now*.
> . From the *Version* list, select the required version of the {RHEL}.
> . Locate the binary DVD version of the ISO image, for example, *{RHEL} Binary DVD*, and click *Download Now*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ifeval::["{el-major-version}" == "7"]
. Click *Switch to version 7 and below* above the *Product Variant* list.
endif::[]
. Select a product variant and a product version from the list.
For example, product variant *{RHEL} for x86_64* and product version *{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}*.
. Locate the full installation image, for example, *{RHEL} {el-major-version}.{el-minor-version} Binary DVD*, and click *Download Now*.
```

Author: Thanks, applied!

> Replace _rhel-binary-dvd.iso_ with the name of your ISO image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace _<rhel-binary-dvd.iso>_ with the name of your ISO image.
```
Optional, but I think referring to replaceable that way identifies the replaceable better. On the other hand, I respect if the convention is to only use italic to identify replaceables. If you decide to go with  `<>`, please apply to entire file.

Author: No change. We generally use italics instead of `<REPLACE ME>`.

ifeval::["{el-major-version}" >= "8"]
. Create directories for {RHEL} {el-major-version} AppStream and BaseOS Kickstart repositories:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# mkdir --parents /var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/appstream/kickstart

> # mkdir --parents /var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/baseos/kickstart

Author: Applied everywhere.

----
endif::[]

ifeval::["{el-major-version}" == "7"]
. Create Kickstart directories:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# mkdir --parents /var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel/server/7/7.7/x86_64/kickstart/
----
endif::[]

. Copy the `kickstart` files from the ISO image:
+
ifeval::["{el-major-version}" >= "8"]
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
# cp -a /mnt/_iso_/AppStream/* /var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/appstream/kickstart
# cp -a /mnt/_iso_/BaseOS/* /mnt/_iso_/images/ /var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/baseos/kickstart
----
+
Note that for BaseOS, you must also copy the contents of the `/mnt/_iso_/images/` directory.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{el-major-version}" == "7"]
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----

> # cp -a /mnt/_iso_/* /var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel/server/7/7.7/x86_64/kickstart/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# cp -a /mnt/_iso_/images/* /var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel/server/7/7.7/x86_64/kickstart/
```
I am not a developer so I can't confirm this, but the step description says to copy contents of the `/mnt/iso/images` directory.

> # cp -a /mnt/iso/* /var/www/html/pub/{project-context}-import/content/dist/rhel/server/{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/kickstart/

Reviewer 2: This needs to get resolved, as I believe this is an error made in the previous revision of this file. The step says to copy the contents of the `/mnt/iso/images` directory, but the actual command starts with `cp -a /mnt/iso/*` instead of `cp -a /mnt/iso/images/*`. Do you know someone who could confirm this?

Author: I don't know. Maybe @ekohl could kindly help?

Reviewer: It was fairly easy to test and I tested with `rhel-server-7.9-x86_64-dvd.iso` and there the content of `images` looks a lot like what I'd expect in a kickstart tree:
```console
$ tree images
images
├── efiboot.img
├── pxeboot
│   ├── initrd.img
│   ├── TRANS.TBL
│   ├── upgrade.img
│   └── vmlinuz
└── TRANS.TBL

1 directory, 6 files
```

Reviewer 2: so the cp command should be updated?

Author: Applied.

----
endif::[]
. Add the following entries to the listing files:
+
ifeval::["{el-major-version}" >= "8"]
To the `/var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/appstream/listing` file, append `kickstart` with a new line.
+ 

> To the `/var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/baseos/listing` file, append `kickstart` with a new line:

Author: Fixed.

+
To the `/var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel8/listing` file, append the version number with a new line.
For example, for the RHEL {el-major-version}.{el-minor-version} binary ISO, append `{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}`.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{el-major-version}" == "7"]
To the `/var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel/server/7/listing` file, append the version number with a new line.

> For example, for the RHEL 7.7 ISO, append `7.7`.

Author: Applied.

* Change `repository = BaseOS` to `repository = .`
. Delete the `[media]` and `[variant-AppStream]` sections.
. Save and close the file.
. Verify that the `/var/www/html/pub/sat-import/content/dist/rhel{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/baseos/kickstart/treeinfo` file has the following format:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[checksums]

> images/efiboot.img = sha256:9ad9beee4c906cd05d227a1be7a499c8d2f20b3891c79831325844c845262bb6

Author: This is technically wrong, but I have no way of getting those checksums for RHEL9. I am not sure if anyone cares, though.

Reviewer 2: I doubt that anyone cares either, but if you want here are the checksums for RHEL9:
```
[checksums]
images/efiboot.img = sha256:c01c18acc6778d6e66c8d0872bac59bfd7219ccf3cfa70a5c605c0fb37f33a83
images/install.img = sha256:ddd08e5a5d92edee150f91ff4f12f39253eae72ff496465cf1b2766fe4a4df49
images/pxeboot/initrd.img = sha256:a09a8ec89d485d71ed1bdad83584d6d816e67448221172d9aad97886cd70adca
images/pxeboot/vmlinuz = sha256:6e523d7c3266e26c695923ab12b2873b16b0c61fb2e48ade608ad8998821584b
```

Author: Thanks for looking those up. Applied.

[release]

> name = Red Hat Enterprise Linux

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
name = {RHEL}
```

Author: Fixed twice.

uid = BaseOS
----
+

> . Open the `/var/www/html/pub/{project-context}-import/content/dist/rhel8/8.1/x86_64/appstream/kickstart/treeinfo` file for editing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Open the `/var/www/html/pub/{project-context}-import/content/dist/rhel{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/appstream/kickstart/treeinfo` file for editing.
```

Author: Fixed.

* Change `repository = AppStream` to `repository = .`
. Delete the following sections from the file: `[checksums]`, `[images-x86_64]`, `[images-xen]`, `[media]`, `[stage2]`, `[variant-BaseOS]`.
. Save and close the file.
. Verify that the `/var/www/html/pub/{Project}-import/content/dist/rhel{el-major-version}/{el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}/x86_64/appstream/kickstart/treeinfo` file has the following format:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,verbatim,attributes"]
----
[general]
; WARNING.0 = This section provides compatibility with pre-productmd treeinfos.
; WARNING.1 = Read productmd documentation for details about new format.
arch = x86_64
family = Red Hat Enterprise Linux

> name = Red Hat Enterprise Linux {el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
name = {RHEL} {el-major-version}.{el-minor-version}.0
```

[release]

> name = Red Hat Enterprise Linux

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
name = {RHEL}
```
